README.md, before:


# National and subnational estimates of the time-varying reproduction number for Covid-19

This repository contains estimates of the time-varying reproduction number for every country in the world listed in the ECDC Covid-19 data source and subnational estimates for 9 countries. Summarised estimates can be found in `national/cases/summary` and `national/deaths/summary` (based on cases and deaths respectively). Estimates for each country can be found in `national/cases/national` and `national/deaths/national`. Subnational estimates can be found in the relevant country folder (`subnational/country`) with the same folder structure as for the national estimates. Estimates are generated using [`{EpiNow2}`](https://epiforecasts.io/EpiNow2/) and presented on [epiforecasts.io/covid](https://epiforecasts.io/covid) (which also outlines the method used). An [interactive visualisation](https://hamishgibbs.github.io/rt_vis/) is currently under development.

If using these estimates please consider citing our associated [paper](https://wellcomeopenresearch.org/articles/5-112).

## Updating the estimates

1. Clone the repository.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/epiforecasts/covid-rt-estimates.git
```

### Using a remote server

Run the following on the command line replacing `path-to-key`, `username@public-ip-of-server`, `github-username`, and `github-pat` with your information. *Note this is not a secure way of transferring your GitHub PAT.*

```bash
curl --fail https://raw.githubusercontent.com/epiforecasts/covid-rt-estimates/master/bin/update-via-ssh.sh > update-via-ssh.sh
sudo bash update-via-ssh.sh path-to-key username@public-ip-of-server github-username github-pat
```

See `bin/update-via-ssh.sh` for details on what this script is doing and the more detailed step by step instructions below.

### Using Docker

2. Log in to GitHub Docker package repository.

```bash
docker login docker.pkg.github.com
```

#### Script approach


3. (Optional - must be done at least once) Update the docker container (by default this pulls a built image passing `"build"` instead triggers a build based on local files).

```bash
sudo bash bin/update-docker.sh
```

3. Run the following in a bash terminal (see `docker logs covidrtestimates` for runtime information).

```bash
sudo bash bin/update-via-docker.sh
```

#### Step by step


3. (Optional) Build the docker container locally.

```bash
docker build . -t covidrtestimates
```

4. (Optional). Alternatively pull the built docker container.

```bash
docker pull docker.pkg.github.com/epiforecasts/covid-rt-estimates/covidrtestimates:latest
docker tag docker.pkg.github.com/epiforecasts/covid-rt-estimates/covidrtestimates:latest covidrtestimates
```

5. Update the estimates (see `docker logs covidrtestimates` for runtime information).

```bash
sudo docker run -d --user rstudio --mount type=bind,source=$(pwd),target=/home/rstudio/covid-rt-estimates --name covidrtestimates covidrtestimates /bin/bash bin/update-estimates.sh
```


### Using R

2. Install dependencies.

```r
devtools::install_dev_deps()
```

3. Update national estimates.

```r
Rscript R/update-cases.R
Rscript R/update-deaths.R
```

4. Run `Rscript R/run-region-updates.R`. 

   Adding `--help` will show documentation and the command options. This can run all or some regions and subregions, control logging and exclude unstable regions. 
   
   Note: Currently regions are all country level but the region/subregion pattern could be reused on any level of parent/child geographic dataset.

## Development environment

This analysis was developed in a docker container based on the `epinow2` docker image.

To build the docker image run (from the `covid-rt-estimates` directory):

``` bash
docker build . -t covidrtestimates
```

Alternatively to use the prebuilt image first login into the GitHub package repository using your GitHub credentials (if you have not already done so) and then run the following:

```bash
# docker login docker.pkg.github.com
docker pull docker.pkg.github.com/epiforecasts/covid-rt-estimates/covidrtestimates:latest
docker tag docker.pkg.github.com/epiforecasts/covid-rt-estimates/covidrtestimates:latest covidrtestimates
```
To run the docker image run:

``` bash
docker run -d -p 8787:8787 --name covidrtestimates -e USER=covidrtestimates -e PASSWORD=covidrtestimates covidrtestimates
```

The rstudio client can be found on port :8787 at your local machines ip.
The default username:password is covidrtestimates:covidrtestimates, set the user with -e
USER=username, and the password with - e PASSWORD=newpasswordhere. The
default is to save the analysis files into the user directory.

To mount a folder (from your current working directory - here assumed to
be `tmp`) in the docker container to your local system use the following
in the above docker run command (as given mounts the whole `covidrtestimates`
directory to `tmp`).

``` bash
--mount type=bind,source=$(pwd)/tmp,target=/home/covidrtestimates
```

To access the command line run the following:

``` bash
docker exec -ti covidrtestimates bash
```
To add another country see [SMG.md](./SMG.md)

Commit message:

I21 timeout control (#32)
* threading timeout through, require EpiNow2 1.2.0 as the timeout is in that release.

* default to inf, no store, tidy.

* capture results

* capture timing result

* capture output

* merge

* protect from non existent runtimes file

* shuffle runtime file logging

* shuffle runtime file logging

* it's not as nested as you think it is...

* and don't forget the closing brace!

* ... and another missed region ...

* ... and another missed region ...

* temporarily add outcome.rds

* the timing is directly on the object

* remove debug

* reintroduce debug, add start not end timestamp

* ditch the row names as meaningless

* remove debug

* Tidy and annotate

* readme update with timing info

* version bump! went to update the news and realised it was probably a significant version bump given the new CLI interface since 0.1.0

* add info about log contents

* refactor didn't pick up those in square brackets...

* refactor didn't pick up all the instances...

README.md, after:


# National and subnational estimates of the time-varying reproduction number for Covid-19

This repository contains estimates of the time-varying reproduction number for every country in the world listed in the ECDC Covid-19 data source and subnational estimates for 9 countries. Summarised estimates can be found in `national/cases/summary` and `national/deaths/summary` (based on cases and deaths respectively). Estimates for each country can be found in `national/cases/national` and `national/deaths/national`. Subnational estimates can be found in the relevant country folder (`subnational/country`) with the same folder structure as for the national estimates. Estimates are generated using [`{EpiNow2}`](https://epiforecasts.io/EpiNow2/) and presented on [epiforecasts.io/covid](https://epiforecasts.io/covid) (which also outlines the method used). An [interactive visualisation](https://hamishgibbs.github.io/rt_vis/) is currently under development.

If using these estimates please consider citing our associated [paper](https://wellcomeopenresearch.org/articles/5-112).

## Updating the estimates

1. Clone the repository.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/epiforecasts/covid-rt-estimates.git
```

### Using a remote server

Run the following on the command line replacing `path-to-key`, `username@public-ip-of-server`, `github-username`, and `github-pat` with your information. *Note this is not a secure way of transferring your GitHub PAT.*

```bash
curl --fail https://raw.githubusercontent.com/epiforecasts/covid-rt-estimates/master/bin/update-via-ssh.sh > update-via-ssh.sh
sudo bash update-via-ssh.sh path-to-key username@public-ip-of-server github-username github-pat
```

See `bin/update-via-ssh.sh` for details on what this script is doing and the more detailed step by step instructions below.

### Using Docker

2. Log in to GitHub Docker package repository.

```bash
docker login docker.pkg.github.com
```

#### Script approach


3. (Optional - must be done at least once) Update the docker container (by default this pulls a built image passing `"build"` instead triggers a build based on local files).

```bash
sudo bash bin/update-docker.sh
```

3. Run the following in a bash terminal (see `docker logs covidrtestimates` for runtime information).

```bash
sudo bash bin/update-via-docker.sh
```

#### Step by step


3. (Optional) Build the docker container locally.

```bash
docker build . -t covidrtestimates
```

4. (Optional). Alternatively pull the built docker container.

```bash
docker pull docker.pkg.github.com/epiforecasts/covid-rt-estimates/covidrtestimates:latest
docker tag docker.pkg.github.com/epiforecasts/covid-rt-estimates/covidrtestimates:latest covidrtestimates
```

5. Update the estimates (see `docker logs covidrtestimates` for runtime information).

```bash
sudo docker run -d --user rstudio --mount type=bind,source=$(pwd),target=/home/rstudio/covid-rt-estimates --name covidrtestimates covidrtestimates /bin/bash bin/update-estimates.sh
```


### Using R

2. Install dependencies.

```r
devtools::install_dev_deps()
```

3. Update national estimates.

```r
Rscript R/update-cases.R
Rscript R/update-deaths.R
```

4. Run `Rscript R/run-region-updates.R`. 

   Adding `--help` will show documentation and the command options. This can run all or some regions and subregions, control logging, exclude unstable regions and set the maximum execution time for each set of analysis.
   
   Note: Currently regions are all country level but the region/subregion pattern could be reused on any level of parent/child geographic dataset.
   
   A timing log will be output and updated in runtimes.csv. Times of -1 = error and 999999 = killed by timeout

## Development environment

This analysis was developed in a docker container based on the `epinow2` docker image.

To build the docker image run (from the `covid-rt-estimates` directory):

``` bash
docker build . -t covidrtestimates
```

Alternatively to use the prebuilt image first login into the GitHub package repository using your GitHub credentials (if you have not already done so) and then run the following:

```bash
# docker login docker.pkg.github.com
docker pull docker.pkg.github.com/epiforecasts/covid-rt-estimates/covidrtestimates:latest
docker tag docker.pkg.github.com/epiforecasts/covid-rt-estimates/covidrtestimates:latest covidrtestimates
```
To run the docker image run:

``` bash
docker run -d -p 8787:8787 --name covidrtestimates -e USER=covidrtestimates -e PASSWORD=covidrtestimates covidrtestimates
```

The rstudio client can be found on port :8787 at your local machines ip.
The default username:password is covidrtestimates:covidrtestimates, set the user with -e
USER=username, and the password with - e PASSWORD=newpasswordhere. The
default is to save the analysis files into the user directory.

To mount a folder (from your current working directory - here assumed to
be `tmp`) in the docker container to your local system use the following
in the above docker run command (as given mounts the whole `covidrtestimates`
directory to `tmp`).

``` bash
--mount type=bind,source=$(pwd)/tmp,target=/home/covidrtestimates
```

To access the command line run the following:

``` bash
docker exec -ti covidrtestimates bash
```
To add another country see [SMG.md](./SMG.md)
